README.md, before:

[cc-by]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[cc-by-image]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg

[![CC BY 4.0][cc-by-shield]][cc-by]

Published in September 12th, 2024

Reference: [AWS Certified AI Practitioner - Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01)

# AWS AI Practitioner Certification - CheatSheet

This reference guide should provide a structured way for you to organize and review the material needed to prepare for the AWS AI Practitioner Certification. The guide will not replace the available content in [AWS Skillbuilder Exam Preparation Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01), but will serve as a content index to help you keep track of all the knowledge needed to successfully pass the exam.

----

## Exam Guide

### Exam description

- 85 questions
- Time length: 120 minutes (2 hours)
- Total Score: 1000
- Passing Score: 700

### Question type overview

1. Multiple choice
2. Mutiple response
3. Ordering
4. Matching
5. Case study

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> 1. **Read the scenario and question carefully.**
> 2. **Look for the number of response options required to answer the question.**
>
>      - Multiple-choice questions require you to select one option to answer the question
>      - Multiple response questions will specify how many response options to select (for example, "Select TWO")
>      - Ordering will specify how you could order the responses includin ordering steps in a process or raking information
>      - Matching will require matching terms to definitions, services to functionalities, or categories to use cases
> 3. **Identify keywords or information.** Look for important details in the scenario such as information related to service requirements. Also, watch for keywords in the question like "LEAST", "MOST", "operational overhead", and "cost-effective".
> 4. **Eliminate incorrect answer choices.** Review the keywords and information you identified to help eliminate incorrect answer choices and select the correct option.

### Reminders

- Keep track of how much time you are spending on a question. You can use the Mark for Review feature in the testing platform to flag a question to review later in the testing time.  
- Use the digital notes tool in the testing platform to organize your thoughts or make general notes about a question. 
- Review your answer before moving to the next question. 
- There is no penalty for guessing. So make sure to answer every question before submitting your exam. 

### Domain  vs. Exam Score

| Domain                                                       | % of Exam |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| Domain 01: Fundamentals of AI and ML                         | 20%       |
| Domain 02: Fundamentals of Generative AI                     | 24%       |
| Domain 03: Application of Foundation Models                  | 28%       |
| Domain 04: Guidelines for Responsible AI                     | 14%       |
| Domain 05: Security, Compliance, and Governance for AI Solutions | 14%       |
| **Total**                                                    | **100%**  |

----

## Table of Contents

- Domain 01: Fundamentals of AI and ML
- Domain 02: Fundamentals of Generative AI
- Domain 03: Application of Foundation Models
- Domain 04: Guidelines for Responsible AI
- Domain 05: Security, Compliance, and Governance for AI Solutions

----

## Personal Notes

> [!TIP]
>
> - For an exam self-entitled as "Practitioner", I considered it a relatively rough test
> - I would consider it as a "Specialty Exam", because it implies knowledge in domains such as: endpoints, API calls, service integration, IAM, KMS, S3 and other topics required by an SA Associate Exam.
> - The [AWS Skillbuilder's Standard Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01) is very complete and provides support to face this exam with ease. There are about 6 hours of videos, in addition to a [20-question practice set](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19790/exam-prep-official-practice-question-set-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01-english). If you can have access to the [Enhanced Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/20536/exam-prep-enhanced-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01-english-amazon) (which requires a paid subscription), it would be awesome because adds a plenty of more questions to the Practice Set, grouped by knowledge domain which will give you a clear perspective of needed domains to reinforce study. Also I would include valuable Flashcards, Lab assessment and an Escape Room game to validate your knowledge.

----

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License][cc-by].

[![CC BY 4.0][cc-by-image]][cc-by]

Commit message:

Synch-test to personal clone

README.md, after:

[cc-by]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[cc-by-image]: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg

[![CC BY 4.0][cc-by-shield]][cc-by]

Published in September 12th, 2024

Reference: [AWS Certified AI Practitioner - Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01)

# AWS AI Practitioner Certification - CheatSheet

This reference guide should provide a structured way for you to organize and review the material needed to prepare for the AWS AI Practitioner Certification. The guide will not replace the available content in [AWS Skillbuilder Exam Preparation Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01), but will serve as a content index to help you keep track of all the knowledge needed to successfully pass the exam.

----

## Exam Guide

### Exam description

- 85 questions
- Time length: 120 minutes (2 hours)
- Total Score: 1000
- Passing Score: 700

### Question type overview

1. Multiple choice
2. Mutiple response
3. Ordering
4. Matching
5. Case study

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> 1. **Read the scenario and question carefully.**
> 2. **Look for the number of response options required to answer the question.**
>
>      - Multiple-choice questions require you to select one option to answer the question
>      - Multiple response questions will specify how many response options to select (for example, "Select TWO")
>      - Ordering will specify how you could order the responses includin ordering steps in a process or raking information
>      - Matching will require matching terms to definitions, services to functionalities, or categories to use cases
> 3. **Identify keywords or information.** Look for important details in the scenario such as information related to service requirements. Also, watch for keywords in the question like "LEAST", "MOST", "operational overhead", and "cost-effective".
> 4. **Eliminate incorrect answer choices.** Review the keywords and information you identified to help eliminate incorrect answer choices and select the correct option.

### Reminders

- Keep track of how much time you are spending on a question. You can use the Mark for Review feature in the testing platform to flag a question to review later in the testing time.  
- Use the digital notes tool in the testing platform to organize your thoughts or make general notes about a question. 
- Review your answer before moving to the next question. 
- There is no penalty for guessing. So make sure to answer every question before submitting your exam. 

### Domain  vs. Exam Score

| Domain                                                       | % of Exam |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| Domain 01: Fundamentals of AI and ML                         | 20%       |
| Domain 02: Fundamentals of Generative AI                     | 24%       |
| Domain 03: Application of Foundation Models                  | 28%       |
| Domain 04: Guidelines for Responsible AI                     | 14%       |
| Domain 05: Security, Compliance, and Governance for AI Solutions | 14%       |
| **Total**                                                    | **100%**  |

----

## Table of Contents

- Domain 01: Fundamentals of AI and ML
- Domain 02: Fundamentals of Generative AI
- Domain 03: Application of Foundation Models
- Domain 04: Guidelines for Responsible AI
- Domain 05: Security, Compliance, and Governance for AI Solutions

----

## Personal Notes

> [!TIP]
>
> - The [AWS Skillbuilder's Standard Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19554/exam-prep-standard-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01) is very complete and provides support to face this exam with ease. There are about 6 hours of videos, in addition to a [20-question practice set](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/19790/exam-prep-official-practice-question-set-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01-english). If you can have access to the [Enhanced Exam Prep Course](https://explore.skillbuilder.aws/learn/course/internal/view/elearning/20536/exam-prep-enhanced-course-aws-certified-ai-practitioner-aif-c01-english-amazon) (which requires a paid subscription), it would be awesome because adds a plenty of more questions to the Practice Set, grouped by knowledge domain which will give you a clear perspective of needed domains to reinforce study. Also I would include valuable Flashcards, Lab assessment and an Escape Room game to validate your knowledge.
> - Although this exam is considered a "Practitioner" exam, I would say that it is much closer to a "Specialty" exam due to the depth of knowledge required to perform well on the exam. Things like: endpoints, API calls, service integration, KMS, IAM, S3, among other topics required by the SA Associate exam.


----

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License][cc-by].

[![CC BY 4.0][cc-by-image]][cc-by]
